[Helen] Previously
on The Affair...
[Noah] She was sex.
The very definition of it.
She was the reason
the word was invented.
[Alison] You were gonna
say this book is true.
And then you make out that
I'm some kind of cold-hearted.
- drug-dealing psychopath.
- Okay. calm down. Alison.
No. Nothing is
sacred to you. Nothing.
- [Eden] Helen Solloway?
- Hi.
Eden Ellery. I was
Noah's publicist.
Bad idea.
We're working together.
[Helen] I think they
were sleeping together.
- [Sasha] When?
- On his book tour.
[Sasha] Didn't
seem to end too well.
I'm really excited about this piece.
People love a comeback story.
When will they run
it? Do you know?
I hear that they want to time it
with the release of the movie.
[Petra on phone] Eden
claims you pressured her
into sleeping with
you on the book tour.
This is fucking shit! What?
I think you had the world a little bit
too much at your fingertips. didn't you?
Damn. Ariel. You really
were paying attention.
There's a chapter in
your last book. Descent.
where you have sex with
your wife against a tree.
Was that supposed to be a rape?
No. I did not consider
it to be a scene of rape.
Are you fucking kidding me?
- Can I help you?
- You must be Helen. I'm Christianna.
I'm sorry. Should I know you?
I'm his daughter.
Well. that's hardly
accurate. is it?
No. Not now that it's
inconvenient for you.
- How much?
- Twenty-five thousand.
She shows up.
pretends she wants a...
- relationship.
- Oh. my God.
- So do you like it?
- Are you kidding me?
- You're a genius.
- Oh.
To new friends
and new beginnings.
- Cheers.
- Cheers. [laughs]
The Maze 3 is a go.
What about Barry's movie?
I can't make it work. I'm sorry.
Hello. little love.
Hi. Mom.
[Sierra] Can you
watch him for me?
My mom was supposed to
do it. but she just cancelled.
- She has the flu or something.
- Oh. I'd love to. but I have a work thing.
- What do you need?
- [Eddie crying]
What do you need. bud?
You gotta help me out.
Do you want subtitles for any video?
-=[ ai.OpenSubtitles.com ]=-
♪ I was screaming
into the canyon ♪
♪ At the moment of my death ♪
♪ The echo I created ♪
♪ Outlasted my last breath ♪
♪ My voice it made
an avalanche ♪
♪ And buried a
man I never knew ♪
♪ And when he died.
his widowed bride ♪
♪ Met your daddy
and they made you ♪
♪ I have only one thing to do ♪
♪ And that's be the
wave that I am And then ♪
♪ Sink back into the ocean ♪
♪ I have only one thing to do ♪
♪ And that's be the
wave that I am And then ♪
♪ Sink back into the ocean ♪
♪ I have only one thing to do ♪
♪ And that's be the
wave that I am And then ♪
♪ Sink back into the ocean
Sink back into the ocean ♪
♪ Sink back into the o... ♪
♪ Sink back into the ocean ♪
[phone ringing]
[Rebecca] Amy is an
absolute design prophet.
She's totally omniscient.
She has her hands in
every aspect of her business.
She expects everyone to be
operating at 100 at all times.
So what do you think
you'd be able to...
contribute to the firm?
Um...
I know I don't have a
design degree. or an. um...
NCIDQ certification.
but I've been putting
houses together my entire life.
And since I've started
doing it professionally.
my client list has
grown pretty quickly.
I started off with one
client. and since...
I don't know. in the
past few months.
I've already done
five other homes.
All on my own. so...
Well. and who are some
of your other clients?
Well...
Sasha Mann.
Carolina Wineman.
Look. my son. uh. just put
together this Instagram...
page for me. I...
I held off on social media
for as long as I could.
but I had to bite the bullet.
You only have four followers.
Yeah. my kids.
You have four children?
- Why?
- Uh...
- [tablet buzzes]
- Oh.
There's one more follower.
[Hailey] Oh. Bringing
your grand total up to five.
[Helen] I can't see
who it is. though.
They're probably private.
You have to follow them back.
Okay. Anyway. um. getting back to what
I think I could contribute to the firm...
Amy is actually
very good friends
with Barry and Carolina Wineman.
The competition for the open
designer position is pretty fierce.
A recommendation from Carolina would
go a long way in moving your résumé
to the top of the huge
stack on Amy's desk.
Why don't you call
Carolina right now?
That is a great idea.
[chuckles softly]
I think she's on vacation.
Yeah. Far away.
Like. unreachable. really.
So...
[woman] Who's unreachable?
- Amy!
- You're back early!
- Hi.
- Hi. I'm Helen.
We were just talking
about Carolina Wineman.
- Mm.
- She's in town.
They were supposed to leave
to shoot Barry's new movie.
but the funding fell out at
the last minute. poor bastard.
I'll tell you this. though.
I was just at his 60th birthday
party about a month or so ago.
and whoever redid their
house did a hell of a job.
Helen claims that was her work.
I'm sorry. What did
you say your name was?
Helen Butler.
Oh. God.
Carolina told me all about you.
- She did?
- She said you're a genius.
She's a great lady.
[car alarm chirps]
[sighs heavily]
[phone buzzes]
- [phone buzzes]
- Oh.
Hi.
[Whitney on phone]  ♪
Happy birthday to you ♪
Happy birthday!
Okay. all right. Great.
Don't remind me.
Mom. come on. I know this
isn't your favorite day ever.
but can we try to
be a little happy?
Yes. I am happy.
- I just got that job.
- Oh. my God! Congratulations!
Thank you.
I'm really just relieved.
I mean. hopefully. this will
cover Stacey and Trevor's tuitions.
and I won't have
to sell the house.
Uh. anyway. I'm sorry that I
couldn't go out there with you.
- I just couldn't turn down this interview.
- Mom. it's okay.
Dad and I have the
wedding thing totally covered.
- You do?
- Yeah. he's actually been amazing.
We-we got a tent. the rentals.
we found a DJ. we have flowers.
Wow. Okay. um...
[laughing] Great.
I guess when you get back.
we'll find you the perfect dress.
Oh. no. we found a dress.
- You did?
- Yeah. It's yours!
Grandma showed you my
dress? She hated that dress.
No. no. no. it was Dad's idea.
Oh. shit. I should go. We're
heading back to the city.
I love you so much!
Happy birthday!
But... Love you. too.
[phone buzzes]
Uh...
Christianna.
- [car horn honks]
- Ooh.
Sorry!
[man on radio] Now going into the fifth
week of this record-breaking heat wave.
local officials are closely monitoring
all areas affected by the drought.
With reservoirs
at an all-time low...
Are you Helen Butler?
I am. Can I help you?
My name's Mariel Rodriguez.
I'm a social worker from
the Los Angeles Department
of Children and Family Services.
I'd like to ask you some questions
about your neighbor. Sierra James.
Is Sierra okay?
It's standard procedure to
speak with friends and neighbors
of the subject of an
open investigation.
- Okay. Do we need to go inside. or...
- This won't take that long.
When was the last time you saw Ms. James
with her child. and how did they appear?
Mm. I haven't seen
them for a couple weeks.
but she seemed... fine.
Can you be more specific?
A little tired. maybe.
but she's a new mother.
That's to be expected.
Anything else? Aberrant behavior?
Drugs and alcohol? Poor decision-making?
Nope. Just tired.
Uh. can I ask what she's
being investigated for?
I'm not at liberty to say.
Thank you for your time.
- [knocking]
- [meditative music playing]
[Helen] Sierra?
[Eddie crying]
Sierra?
[crying continues]
Sierra. what is going
on? Where's Eddie?
- He's... upstairs.
- [music shuts off]
I'm letting him cry it out.
That's for nighttime.
not the middle of the day.
I'm just really stressed
out right now. okay?
Oh. Okay.
Well. are you aware you're being
investigated by Child Protective Services?
It's not a big deal.
I got into a minor accident
a couple weeks back.
Nobody was hurt.
Just. I hit a dumpster.
But why are social services
investigating a car accident?
Because the car was totaled.
And Eddie was in it.
Sierra. this is serious.
- You could lose him!
- I know.
I'm handling it.
Okay. Yeah.
[scoffs]
Look. I have to go pick
up Stacey and Trevor.
but you need to get up and get
dressed and clean the fucking house.
Okay? You are not the first
woman on Earth to have a child.
You need to grow up and figure
out how to take care of that baby!
[Eddie wailing]
Since when do
you care about him?
I... What?
The night that I
crashed the car.
I came over to your house
and I asked you for help.
You said you were too busy.
[Eddie wailing]
And now. suddenly. you care
about what happens to us? Please.
Can I have my weed back?
[wailing continues]
How about you get the fuck off
the couch and go comfort your kid?
[phone buzzes]
[indistinct chatter]
- Sure.
- [phone chimes]
[Christianna] Thanks
for coming all this way.
- I hope you like iced lattes.
- Thank you.
I am so sorry for the
cryptic messages. I just...
I really needed to talk to you.
Look. I could just tell that you're
not like all of Sasha's other girlfriends.
You're like a real human being.
You're not just trying to get
close to him because he's famous.
And I can tell he's really
crazy about you. so...
Has he told you
about my mother at all?
Um. a little. Yeah.
He told you she
was an addict. right?
Has he told you that he's
the one who got her hooked?
No.
Or how about the fact
that she was the one
who supported the two of them
for an entire decade at
the beginning of his career?
- Did he tell you that?
- No.
Um. I don't know.
but I'm sorry. I didn't...
What-what does this
have to do with me exactly?
She left me money.
My grandparents were rich.
and Sasha's in charge of it.
He's supposed to pay me an
income every year. but he never does.
I mean. I have to practically squat
at his house to get him to pay me.
That money that you were
asking for is your money?
- Well. why would he do that?
- I had a bad couple of years.
I fucked up a bit. I...
tried committing suicide.
I mean. my mom had
just died. for fuck's sake.
But all of that is
behind me now.
I have an apartment.
I have two jobs.
I'm writing a book.
That's great. I mean.
it sounds really great.
I want to terminate the trust.
And I need your help getting
Sasha to listen to reason.
I'll be 21 next month.
I should be able to
control my own money.
Why would he keep your
mother's money? He doesn't need it.
[laughs softly]
It's not about the money. Helen.
It's about control.
I mean. control me. and
he controls the story I tell.
It's all about his image. That's the
only thing he actually cares about.
[knocking on window]
Oh. fuck.
I've got to get back.
I can't lose this job.
Look. can you just
talk to him for me?
Please?
Will you help me?
I don't know.
I'll think about it.
Hey. You look great.
Do you feel better?
- Uh. Mariel's here.
- Who?
Mariel. my social worker.
Oh.
- Come in.
- Oh. okay.
Can I get you anything.
Mariel? Tea or biscuits or...
No. thanks. I'm all right.
There we go. Okay.
Where are you from?
[Mariel] Los Angeles.
born and raised.
Oh. me. too! California girls!
Do you have any relatives
close by that you can rely on?
Uh. yes. My mother is close by.
Would you like some cheese?
[Mariel] Uh. what is
your mother's name?
Her name is. um. Adeline Taylor.
[Mariel] And your mother
lives in Los Angeles?
Uh. her primary residence
is Los Angeles. yes.
- Um. but she's an actress...
- [Eddie crying]
so she moves around
a lot... Hey. hey. hey.
[Mariel] "Primary residence." Does
that mean she has multiple homes?
[Sierra] It's okay. Yes.
Yeah. Oh. my gosh.
I'm so sorry about the racket.
I totally forgot about
Eddie's sweet potatoes.
I make all of his
food from scratch.
It's okay. Just one sec. Okay.
Ooh. Ooh. ooh. ooh.
- Whoa.
- Hi.
You have the instincts
of a panther. Helen.
Lucky you were there.
Are... [stutters]
you leaving already?
Yes. I think I have
everything I need.
You don't want to ask me
some more questions. or...
Have a nice day.
[Eddie cries]
Um...
- It's okay. Ooh.
- Whoopsie.
- Hang on. hang on one second.
- [door closes]
[Helen] Uh. excuse me.
Ma'am. um. you're. uh...
Mariel. um. can you tell
me what the next steps are?
I'm sorry. I can't share that
with anyone but Ms. James.
Okay. but hypothetically. if it
was an investigation like Sierra's.
[stammers] what
would the next...
Hypothetically.
if the subject of an investigation
is found to be an unfit parent.
the subject's child would
be removed from the home
and placed with the next of kin.
Like her mother?
I really can't talk
about this anymore.
[car door opens. closes]
[engine starts]
- [crying]
- [Helen] Sierra.
- Sierra. it's okay.
- It's not. It's not.
It's not. I can't
do anything right.
- I'm gonna end up killing him.
- Oh. no. you're not.
No. you're not.
It was one mistake. I mean.
this period is... [stuttering]
it's an adjustment. And
all mothers make mistakes.
No. you don't understand.
I can't get out of
bed in the morning.
I just lay there staring
at the ceiling and I...
I can't stop thinking. I
can't stop thinking about...
hurting myself. and I just
want to leave him somewhere
so that somebody
will find him and.
and I think they should just
take him away from me now
so that he doesn't
have to remember me.
Oh. no. Shh.
Oh. God. Sierra.
- Listen to me. Will you listen to me?
- Mm-hmm.
I think that you need
some help. okay?
[sniffles]
All right? You're not equipped
to do this on your own.
How come everybody
can do this but me?
I don't think that you should
be alone right now. Hmm?
So why don't you and Eddie come
stay with me for a while? Hmm?
- Okay.
- Thank you.
- We'll get you some help.
[coos]
[suitcase wheels rolling]
Surprise!
Oh. Jesus Christ. wow.
- Hey. [laughs]
- Hey. How you doing?
I thought you were in the
Sahara? Or something...
Well. production got shut down.
I mean. uh. civil unrest
in Chad or something.
Don't know. Whatever.
Doesn't matter.
Can you pack a quick bag?
Uh. we've got a jet
waiting for us at Van Nuys
and a reservation at the
French Laundry in two hours.
- Hi. How are you?
- Hi.
I can't go to San Francisco.
I mean. my kids are in there.
They're making me dinner.
What the fuck do you mean?
Helen. I flew 15
hours to surprise you.
Have you got any idea
how hard it is to get a charter
out of Chad during civil war?
- No.
- Well. it's hard.
I'm sorry. I can't.
I mean. I just...
I can't. Sorry.
[sighs] Well. whatever.
You just take these. then.
Uh. it was supposed
to say "Happy Birthday."
but. uh. somehow my
assistant fucked up.
I mean. you're welcome
to come in and join us.
Um. I mean. it's no French Laundry.
and we'll be with my kids and...
But...
[Sasha] Yeah.
Love to.
Yeah.
Okay. cool.
[Sasha] Um. you know.
I picked up a few tricks
when I played a
chef some years back.
- Do you want me to take over?
- I'm good.
This is my dad's recipe.
Oh. Your dad's.
Mmm. Stacey. that's an
awful lot of sauce. isn't it?
Nope. it's just right.
Sasha. Let her do it.
Yeah. sure.
Sorry. Just trying to help.
Are you sure you're all right?
[Trevor] Oh. uh. Mom
hates her birthday.
Yep. even when we were kids.
she wouldn't let us get her a cake.
My dad would make a lasagna.
stick a candle in it. and that'd be it.
Birthday finito.
What a shock you left him.
I didn't. actually. He left me.
- [Sierra] Hello again.
- [Sasha] Hi.
How's your baby?
Uh. he's asleep. Thank God.
[Sasha] See. that's
why I never had kids.
I'm just absolutely
useless without my sleep.
So. it's set in the future.
Two astronauts meet by chance
on the International Space Station.
They fall desperately in
love. but their love is doomed
because they're being sent
off on two different missions
in opposite directions
deep in the bowels of space.
Quite the little
tragedian. isn't she?
I wasn't finished.
Anyways. they try
to forget each other.
They build completely
new lives with new people.
But it hurts. you know?
Because deep down. they
secretly still love each other.
Until one day. they run
into each other again
on the opposite
side of the galaxy.
Out in space?
- That's very convenient. isn't it?
- [Stacey] Because all this time
they thought they were
moving away from each other.
they were actually in orbit.
They were always
meant to meet again.
I need more wine.
I think it's a very
beautiful story. Stacey.
Thanks.
[knocking at door]
- Hi.
- Is Sierra here?
- Um...
- Hi. babe.
- [Sierra] Mom?
I'm so sorry to just
come over like this.
but you're not answering your phone.
and this Mariel woman keeps calling me.
She says she's
your social worker?
- Hi. I'm Helen. I'm her neighbor.
- Oh. you're the neighbor.
- Yeah. Hi.
- Right. right. Hi.
Adeline Taylor.
- It's so nice to meet you.
- Nice to meet you.
Sweetie. we got to
go. Can you get Eddie?
Um. where are we going?
Um. well.
first. we're gonna
go back to my house.
And I got a terrific
baby nurse for Eddie.
And Dr. Miller says
he can take you tonight.
No. Mom. please. I
don't want to go there.
Honey. he's doing
us a tremendous favor.
and it's all gonna be
very private. which is good.
because if the press gets ahold
of this. they will have a field day.
[Sierra] Mom. nobody
even knows who I am.
Of course they do. sweetheart.
because they know who I am.
But if we get ahead of
this. we can control it.
All right?
But we need to go tonight.
Adeline?
- Sasha Mann?
- What the fuck are you doing here?
Sierra's my daughter.
[Sasha] Fuck. no way.
You're. like. you're 35.
[Adeline] I love you.
Oh. what are you doing here?
Well. I'm. um... Hey. I'm. uh...
- I'm with. um...
- Helen.
- I'm with Helen.
- Oh. thank God.
For a second. thought
you were... [laughs]
Well. okay. Cupid. Your
style's changing a bit.
[Sasha] Hey. I haven't
seen you since. like...
- Well. that press junket in Budapest...
- What are... What is she talking about?
Um. she wants to
institutionalize me.
- What?
- Yeah. Dr. Miller is. um...
He works at a psych ward.
She. um. she put me in
there when I was a teenager.
[Sasha imitating French
accent] "The sun is rising.
You have no dreams.
Your life is over. Action!"
- [Adeline] It's so good to see you.
- [Sasha] So good to see you.
Sierra. honey.
we really got to go.
Honey?
Yeah. I think...
I know you've been
away for a few months.
but I live next door. and we
spend quite a bit of time together.
and I think...
Sierra is suffering from
postpartum depression.
- Are you a doctor?
- No.
[chuckles] That's funny.
because you sounded like a doctor.
Yeah. I just think she needs
some childcare. And a therapist.
I don't think she needs
to be institutionalized.
Institutionalized? I
mean. it's called rehab.
If she's clean. we'll leave. If
she's not. it's the best place for her.
Helen. perhaps we
should stay out of this.
I mean. let the ladies sort it
themselves. It's not really...
- It's none of our business. is it?
- Perhaps you should stay out of this.
Um... [clicks tongue]
Do you mind if I just talk to my
daughter privately for a moment?
[Sasha] Look. all I'm saying is that this
is kind of your Achilles' heel. isn't it?
I wish you would stop trying to turn me
wanting to help people into a pathology.
Helen. her mother
is a movie star.
She's got all the money
and resources in the world.
Well. I know this might
be hard for you to believe.
but sometimes people
need more than money
- thrown at their problems.
- I just think you fill your life
with other people's problems in
order to avoid addressing your own.
That's all I'm saying.
Do you think this is fun for me?
Spending all this
time with the woman
my boyfriend cheated
on me with and their baby?
- Then why do you do it?
- Because she needs help.
She's barely hanging on.
Her mother is a psychopath.
I've tried to hate her. Believe me.
But I ca... I can't.
She's just... She's too...
pathetic to hate.
Perhaps you do it
because you hate her.
- What?
- Helen. people will go to crazy lengths
to avoid feeling that feeling.
All right. well...
Speaking of people you hate.
guess who I had coffee with today.
Christianna.
- Christianna. Why?
- She reached out to me.
But how'd she find you?
- What does it matter?
- Well. you're kind of hard to track down.
You're not on social
media or anything.
- Why don't you want me to talk to her?
- Because why would you?
She asked me for help
getting through to you.
She says the money's hers.
Oh. She told you about
Lily's trust. did she?
- Yeah.
- Mm-hmm.
Did she tell you
she's writing a book?
I think so.
Book about me?
- No.
- Mm-hmm.
Listen. I know she can be
very convincing. but she's lying.
She's full of horseshit. I mean.
Lily and I loved each other. Helen.
I met her when Christianna
was five. and I helped raise her.
We were a family.
But when Christianna became a
teenager. she got this asshole boyfriend
that convinced her to
break into Lily's phone
and steal these photos
of me and Lily naked.
and Christianna
went and sold them.
After that. Lily put a
stipulation in Christianna's trust
that if she wanted her grandparents'
money when she was an adult.
she could not disparage
me or Lily publicly.
- And has she?
- No. not yet.
But she's written this tell-all
book. and she wants to publish it.
She gets her inheritance
in full when she's 25.
which gives me four
years to change her mind.
I mean. why... why did Lily
put you in charge of her trust?
Because she trusted me. Helen.
Christianna says you
never send the checks.
Mm-hmm. because I
don't know where she lives.
She's a grifter. She moves
around every six months.
Why don't you just
give her the money
and let her publish the book
if you have nothing to hide?
For fuck's sake!
That would ruin my career.
I've worked too hard for too
long to throw my whole life away
just because Christianna
is angry that her mother died
and wants to blame
it on somebody.
She says you got her
mother hooked on drugs.
Are you f...
Are you fucking kidding me?
[exhales]
Your ex-husband did a truly
amazing job of fucking you over.
But if you don't
trust me by now.
I don't know what
the fuck to tell you.
[door slides open]
[door slides closed]
Sierra. honey. go get
Eddie. We're really late.
What's going on?
I'm gonna go and see Dr. Miller.
and my mom is gonna take. uh.
care of Eddie while I get some help.
Oh. Sierra. there has
to be some other option.
No. I don't think so.
What if I take him?
- Helen.
- What?
You can stay here
as long as you like.
and I'll try to find someone
to come here and help you.
What are you doing?
She's his mother. I don't think
they should be separated right now.
[exhales]
Hey. I'm beat.
I've been awake for 24 hours.
so if you'll excuse me.
- Um. Adeline. wonderful to see you.
- [Adeline] Mwah!
- Call me. We'll have lunch or something.
- I will. We will. Bye.
[Adeline sighs]
I can tell you care
about my daughter.
Many people do.
She has a knack for finding
those people who want to save her.
but then they just end up
enabling her addictions and laziness
and her refusal to accept
any responsibility for her life.
Excuse me?
Oh. I'm sorry. I'm not saying
you're... one of those people.
I don't know you.
But I do know my daughter.
She's sweet and beautiful.
but she's also a fuck-up. and
she needs professional help.
She doesn't need another...
well-intentioned hanger-on.
What the fuck is wrong with you?
Why do you think I'm
such a fuck-up. Mom?
Did you know that
until I met Helen.
I didn't even realize there
were people in the world
who loved their kids
just for being alive?
Just because they
fucking existed?
You should see
her with her kids.
She's amazing.
She loves them. She
just fucking loves them.
They can fuck up or.
or say something stupid
and it's like she
doesn't even notice.
If I ever had a pimple on my
face. you couldn't even look at me.
I stopped eating
because you said
you'd rather have a dead
daughter than a fat one.
- I was kidding.
- It wasn't fucking funny.
- [sigh]
- Sierra] You didn't want a daughter.
You just wanted a doll that you
could dress up and parade around
and bring to interviews
when you needed
- to seem more human.
- Oh. my God. Oh. my God. I tried so hard.
My parents were useless.
- Rich and famous and useless.
- Oh. my God.
They had their assistant take me
to get my tonsils out when I was five.
I did not want that
to be your childhood.
I wanted you with me.
[stuttering] I wanted
us to be in this together.
You know. but I
guess I fucked up.
I pushed you too hard or
I protected you too much.
I don't know.
I think I was just so
afraid of the scrutiny
you were gonna be under
because you were my kid.
It's a scary world. Sierra.
The only thing that I'm scared
of. Mom. in the whole world.
the whole entire world...
is you.
How do you two know
each other again?
Don't do that. Mom.
Oh. [sighs] Right.
She...
fucked your dying husband and
then got pregnant and had his baby?
Well. technically. he
wasn't my husband.
Mm-hmm.
And you really feel you have
her best interests at heart.
Life is short. Adeline.
Okay.
Sierra. I'll see you tomorrow.
[footsteps leaving]
[exhales]
- [sighs]
- [door closes]
[Sierra] Um...
Do you mind if I just go
to bed? I'm... very tired.
Of course.
- Happy birthday.
- Thank you.
[knocking at door]
Happy birthday.
[Noah] Well. I kind of like
the cover art they chose.
It's. like. bare trees in a winter
wood. It's kind of haunting.
It's a beautiful book. Noah.
- It really is.
- Thanks. Thank you.
And thank you for your blurb.
- I'm really grateful.
- Ah. I loved reading it.
[sighs] I'm sorry about
your mom. by the way.
- That part was true. wasn't it?
- Mm-hmm.
I had no idea back at school.
Well. nobody did.
You know what I find sort of
interesting. now that I'm getting older?
All those people I thought were
so cool back when I was young?
- Mm-hmm.
- Just effortlessly cool...
Those people were
in so much pain.
- You think?
- Ah.
To a person.
There's no such thing as
being cool when you're young.
There's just different
degrees of terrified
and how adept
you are at hiding it.
Which is inversely
proportional. in my opinion.
I love you. Ariel.
I love you. too. Noah.
It feels like things are finally
coming back together for you. huh?
Hey. you want to get a coffee?
- I'm buying.
- Sure.
Can I ask you something?
I got a call a
couple of days ago
from a reporter who's
doing this long-form story
about me and my "resurrection."
Where? For what?
Vanity Fair.
- Wow.
- Mm.
No. it's great. but...
she asked me about this. uh.
publicist I had on
the Descent tour...
who. apparently.
has said that I...
I don't know. tried to
seduce her or something.
Tried to seduce her?
Pressured her into
sleeping with me.
That's different.
I know... I know.
I mean. I don't know what she meant.
but. I mean. she kind of blindsided me.
- What did you say?
- Well. I told her it wasn't true.
Which it wasn't.
The opposite. in fact.
I mean. she was throwing
herself at me the whole time.
- [chuckles] What. you don't believe me?
- [chuckles] I didn't say that.
But you don't.
I'm telling you. she was...
She was pretty aggressive.
Okay. so what are
you worried about?
Well. I don't know. Nothing.
I guess. It's probably fine.
The reporter didn't seem
that interested. actually.
She was probably just
doing due diligence. but...
I mean. this publicist. Eden.
she can't just make
shit up about me. right?
You know you don't have the best
reputation around this stuff. right?
Ariel. that was in college.
that was 30 years ago.
That's not what
I'm talking about.
I'm talking about your
current reputation. Noah.
in the community.
What community?
The publishing world.
You're seen as something
of a loose cannon.
What?
Why?
Well. you've had a storied past.
You went to prison. after all.
Well. that's just fucking
ridiculous. I went to prison for my...
For what?
Never mind.
I don't deserve that.
[stuttering] I have the
most boring fucking life.
I work. I write. I see my kids.
and I try to be a
good person. that's it.
I know you do.
But. look... when
you got out of prison.
you were a little
bit angry. right?
A little bit bitter?
Sure. Prison sucks.
Right. well...
Do you remember teaching a class
with a student named Audrey in it?
Audrey Nelson?
Uh... yeah.
Were you not very nice to her?
Well. I was as nice to her as I was
to anyone else in that class. Why?
She's written a book.
- Good for her.
- Apparently. you're in it.
Really?
She doesn't name you
directly. but it's a memoir
about her abusive relationship
with an older male professor.
She's going around town. telling
people that the character is based on you.
The book is
getting a lot of buzz.
[horn honks]
[Harry] Look. Noah. I can't
say that I am entirely surprised.
Nowadays. you
can't be too careful.
These accusations are
coming from anywhere.
Luckily. we are prepared.
You're gonna really love Joyce. She's
like the MVP of our firm these days.
So. how you been otherwise?
Excited for the
Descent premiere?
We are gonna do a rerelease
with Sasha Mann's face on the cover
to coincide with the opening.
Get you some more moola.
Want to see the cover art?
Not really. Uh.
I'm sure it's fine.
Sit. sit.
- I'm Joyce.
- Hey. I'm Noah.
So...
Harry filled me in on
most of the details.
The reporter is Petra
Ranes from Vanity Fair.
- Mm-hmm.
- And this woman.
uh. Eden Ellery. she
used to work with us. right?
Right. she was our in-house
publicist about ten years ago.
She left a few years
before you arrived.
Okay.
And this alleged incident
happened over ten years ago?
- "Alleged incident?" Nothing happened.
- [Harry] That's right.
It seems a little
convenient. doesn't it?
Just when he's got a movie
and a new book coming out. suddenly
she remembers being harassed?
No. I didn't harass her.
Noah. it's okay.
We're on your side.
And so you want to know
what to give her as a statement?
He already gave her a statement.
Without talking to anyone?
I didn't know I was supposed to.
Well. what did you say?
Uh. basically. I said no.
Mm. Do you remember
exactly what you said?
- Uh...
- But you denied it?
- Yeah.
- [Harry] Well. we can call
and we can find out exactly
what he said. can't we?
I don't know. We can try.
but she may not give it to us.
Guys. there's no
truth to this story.
- None at all?
- No. I mean...
I remember Eden
was very flirtatious.
and I think maybe I kissed
her in my hotel room. but...
it was totally consensual.
And you weren't
married at the time.
No. I was married. I
was married to Alison.
but. look. I know I wasn't
the best guy at that time.
I know that.
Everybody knows that.
I mean. so much of what
the Jack Hunter book is about
is me wrestling with who I
was and what I did and why.
But there's a difference
between poor judgment
and being a criminal. right?
[scoffs] Well...
For fuck's sake.
of course there is.
All I'm saying is that the
court of public opinion isn't as...
rigorous
as the court of law these days.
But. unfortunately. that's where
many of these cases are being tried.
Do we have any way of
getting to Eden at this point?
Surely we have her contact
information somewhere.
That would leave us
incredibly exposed.
God forbid she turns that
around and gives it to the reporter.
- Oh. fuck. I didn't think of that.
- Guys. this is idiotic.
I misspoke.
I should just call up Petra and tell
her. okay. yes. there was a flirtation.
but it was completely
consensual.
- That's the truth.
- What do you think?
I think it's risky.
reopening the subject.
She might potentially interpret
that as an admission of guilt.
We could try to kill
the piece completely.
- What?
- I'd rather we didn't. Joyce.
This is a very important
moment for Noah and his career.
Not to mention. such
great PR for the book.
Look...
[inhales] if we do
go back to Petra.
we need to arm you with
some very specific language.
I need you to talk about
how much you admire Eden...
Actually. no. Ms. Ellery
for stepping forward.
How you respect women and
support the Me Too movement
as a long-overdue correction
of the wrongs in our society.
How you assumed that your interactions
with Ms. Ellery were consensual.
but if you misread her intentions.
you truly apologize for any...
I'm not apologizing.
- Eh. that's not what I'm saying...
- You literally just said "apologize."
I'm just trying to help
you get ahead of this.
- If she's going to accuse you...
- She can't accuse me
if I did nothing wrong.
We're both adults. we had a
flirtation. That's just the fucking truth.
Harry. you know me.
Come on. back me up here.
[sighs]
I think you should do
just what Joyce says.
Look. she's handled a few of
these scandals for us already.
She knows what
she is talking about.
You can't just invent reality.
Certain things happen.
other things don't.
It's called "truth"
'cause you can prove it.
If you can't prove it. then
it's just your fucking opinion.
Okay. I will set a call with you.
me and Petra. and I will explain
that you would like to
clarify your comment.
No. ple... No. I can
do that on my own.
We should do this call together.
Yeah. with all due respect.
that's gonna look like I
have something to hide.
Look. I'm in town.
maybe I just go see her.
- Is that a good idea?
- No.
Oh. for fuck's sake. Harry. you ask her
when you want to wipe your own ass?
Is she running this place now?
Noah. these are
very precarious times.
and men like you have
a target on their backs.
Okay. fine. Sorry.
Look. I gave an
answer that was glib.
I just want to go back and
correct it. Can't I do that?
Noah. let us handle this.
So. thanks for letting me
drop in on you like this.
Are you kidding? I'm delighted.
It's nice to see you again.
I. uh. I just happened to be
down here in the neighborhood.
and it occurred to me that your office
was around here somewhere. so...
Please.
- It's such a great building.
- It really is.
Where were your offices before
the. before the Towers came down?
You know. um. I wasn't here.
- I was still in school.
- Of course. [chuckles]
- Oh. God. I'm so sorry.
- Don't be.
- Where were you?
- I was in Brooklyn.
My daughter was. uh. I had
just dropped her at preschool
and. uh. I was walking back to
the subway and I heard the news.
Now she's getting married. In
fact. that's why I'm over here.
I'm helping her
plan the wedding.
Wow. Time flies.
It really does.
So. anyway. I was.
uh. I was thinking about
the conversation we had
the other day. and. uh.
uh. while I was driving. and I just
wanted to clarify my answer to you.
- if that's okay with you.
- Of course.
Would you mind if we.
if we talked without the...
- Off the record?
- Yeah. that's... yeah. that's the term.
- Of course.
- Thank you.
So I think I was just
surprised by your question. uh.
because it's been
so long since. uh.
Ms. Ellery and I had any.
had any. uh. involvement
with each other. and...
So much has happened since
then. I guess I needed more time to.
to really. truly remember
what happened between us
on that book tour
all those years ago.
And the truth is that. uh.
Ms. Ellery and I. we did
engage in some flirtation.
But it never went beyond that.
I see.
Thanks for the clarification.
Do you mind if I ask
some follow-up questions?
Of course. Yeah. that's why I'm here.
I want to be completely transparent.
So. then you never had sex?
Uh. no. No.
No. I mean. I. I respected
Eden... Ms. Ellery. I... [stuttering]
And she was a colleague doing
a. doing a job. and I supported that.
Ms. Ellery. when we spoke.
mentioned a party in the Hamptons
at the home of a producer
named Rodney Callahan.
Okay.
You didn't pressure
her into sex that night?
Absolutely not.
Are you sure?
Yeah. I'm sure. I remember
the night very well. It was...
it was the night my
second wife went into labor.
And there was a giant hurricane.
which was flooding the roads. and I was...
doing everything in my power
to try and make it home to her.
That sounds dramatic.
Yeah... well. it all worked out.
Okay. Well. I...
appreciate your
candor. Thank you.
[sighs] Thank you.
Thank you.
Actually. Noah.
do you mind if I ask
a few more questions?
I was gonna have someone
call you to fact-check.
but as long as
I've got you here...
Of course.
Do you mind if we...
go on the record?
Sure.
[sighs]
Okay. so I wanted to go
back to the origins of Descent.
I found out. from other
interviews you gave at the time.
that much of it was
written in a rubber room
where you were sent on
probation from your teaching job
at Kings Science and Tech.
That's right.
Why were you there?
Uh. I'd recently split with
my wife. and I'd had a. uh...
completely consensual
liaison with another teacher.
"Liaison"?
I can't think of any
other way to describe it.
Zoe Sobler. right?
She was a student teacher at the
time. So. under your supervision?
No. no. she wasn't...
[stammers] She-she
was a student teacher.
but she wasn't under my
supervis... I mean. she-she never...
she didn't teach
in my classroom.
She didn't report directly to
you. is that what you're saying?
No. I mean. yes.
That-that is what I'm saying.
She didn't report to me.
Okay. So I had that wrong.
I'm sure there are
records that could prove...
Likewise. do you remember a
student from your seminar at Livingston?
Audrey Nelson.
Uh. yes. Yeah.
I understand she has a
new memoir coming out.
I'm so proud of her. it's...
[Petra] Yeah. I read it.
It's very good.
But. uh. most of it centers around
the main character's relationship
with her seminar professor.
an aging white novelist who is
verbally and emotionally abusive.
At one point he
literally tells her
that she can't be a writer
because she has no inner life.
She also describes a conversation
in which the professor claims
that sex doesn't need to be consensual
in order for a woman to enjoy it.
Noah. are you the
professor in that book?
[sighs]
I. I mean. possibly. I...
But if so. then she has taken
a few very nuanced and
complicated conversations.
uh. completely out of context.
I spoke to Audrey.
Oh. okay. So that
question was rhetorical.
She paints you as a rather
unapologetic misogynist.
A misogynist? I...
For fuck's sake. Petra. I was...
I'd just gotten out of jail when
I was teaching that seminar.
I had even attempted
suicide. so. yes.
in my state of mind
at that time of my life.
I was probably...
not the greatest kind
of instructor. But...
to tell her I wasn't responding to
her material is not a criminal act.
She's obviously trying to...
conflate the current political climate
with my very brief association with her
in order to direct attention
to her book. I mean...
[sighs] Come on. you're
an intelligent woman.
Isn't that obvious to you?
Audrey told me that much of
Descent was autobiographical.
Your second wife. Alison
Bailey. committed suicide.
Could that be. in any way.
related to your depiction
of her in that book?
[sighs]
Noah.
Mm-hmm.
Yeah. I understand. We will.
Well. you've been so helpful.
Yes. [clears throat]
Thank you for your time.
You're fucked.
[exhales]
I am having déjà vu.
Yeah. right.
How in the flying fuck did we
end up back here again. Noah?
I don't know.
What can I do. Jon?
[chuckles]
Well... [clears throat]
normally. in a case like this.
we would go after your accuser.
- What's her name? Emily.
- Eden.
I mean. with a name like
that. no wonder she fucked you.
Standard procedure
would be to try to discredit
this Eden character.
try to establish a history
of sexual promiscuity.
Better yet. mental illness.
Then we may have
a fighting chance.
Did she ever mention anything
about sleeping with other clients?
What? No.
Oh. I'll have a...
an intern scour her
social media accounts.
Maybe we'll find something.
Worst comes to worst. we'll
hire a private investigator.
Well. how's that gonna help?
Well. if we can
discredit Miss Eden.
we may be able to threaten Vanity
Fair with a character defamation lawsuit.
Though just because she fucked around
doesn't mean she wanted to fuck you.
- I didn't fuck her. Jon.
- And. honestly. in this day and age.
they'll probably tell us to go fuck
ourselves and go publish it anyway.
[sighs]
Shit.
Now that I'm thinking about
it. the smarter play here...
We got to get to the girl.
Convince her to retract.
What do you know about her?
Does she need money?
Can she be bought?
- What does she have to lose?
- I don't know.
I don't understand why
she's doing this to me.
I really don't.
We got along great.
We were friends.
[sighs] Maybe if I could
just reach out to her
and ask her what she wants...
Whoa. whoa. whoa. No.
for Christ's sake. Noah.
under no circumstances
are you to contact this woman.
But nothing happened between us.
I don't care if you fucked
her. if she fucked you.
if you shoved carrots up each
other's asses and ate them.
do not reach out to this woman.
Jon. I went to prison for three
years for a crime I didn't commit.
Eh. don't remind me.
It was the nadir of my
professional career.
I know I'm not guilty here.
How can it be possible
there's nothing else I can do?
I'm sorry. Solloway. it's like the
French Revolution out there right now.
The best I can offer is we
hire a private investigator.
we see if she's
retained a lawyer.
and we float some under-the-table
settlement for her silence.
I don't have the money to pay for a
private investigator. Or Eden. Or you.
I'm putting my daughter's
wedding on credit.
Been banking on this
book and this movie to...
put me back in the black.
I should call my crisis
PR girl right away.
She's the best. Anthony
Weiner. Eliot Spitzer. Weinstein.
But she fired him.
Oh. God. [exhales]
All right.
I'll set up a call for
all of us tomorrow.
We'll discuss next steps
in case the worst happens.
In the meantime. go home.
Cancel all public appearances.
And. for crying out loud.
keep your hands to yourself.
And circle your wagons.
Meaning what?
Tell your family.
[sigh]
[woman over P.A.] Flight 11 7 to Tel
Aviv will now be departing from Gate 45.
Flight 11 7 to Tel Aviv will
now be departing from Gate 45.
[quietly] Fuck. that's tonight.
[woman over P.A.] Good
afternoon. passengers.
This is a pre-boarding
announcement
for Flight 1537 to Los Angeles.
We are now inviting those
passengers with small children
and passengers requiring special
assistance to begin boarding at this time.
Please have your boarding
pass and identification ready.
Regular boarding will begin
in ten minutes. Thank you.
[indistinct chatter]
[emcee]...of the Art Seidenbaum
Award for First Fiction.
Armando Solis.
[applause]
[Armando] Thank you.
Thank you. L. A. Times.
English wasn't my first language.
but it was the language I chose to...
give voice to this
first piece of fiction.
this first declaration of self.
And I think it was the only choice.
because English makes no sense.
In a wonderful way. really.
It has less of a road
map. less... internal logic.
[Armando continues indistinctly]
[applause]
Eden. I just want
to talk to you.
Noah. I'm a publicist.
and I'm gonna give you some
professional advice for free.
Walk away. Right now.
Did you say all those
things about me to Petra?
I talked to Petra. yes.
Okay. now. I have a
very different memory
of what happened
between us that night.
Uh. we-we were friends. weren't
we? We-we were having fun.
- I worked for you.
- But...
It was my job to keep you happy.
Even as your demands got
more and more ridiculous.
What demands?
That I come to your hotel room.
- When you were drunk.
- Oh. come on.
- Eden. that's not what happened.
- That I do drugs with you.
[whispers] That I
have sex with you.
Eden. that was your idea.
- [stammering]
- [scoffs]
At Rodney's party? I was just
trying to get home to my wife!
Oh. my God. At least
be honest with yourself.
No. you be honest with
yourself. You remember...
you remember how you
were dressed that night?
You remember how you
were dancing with me?
You were coming on to me.
Excuse me. I've got
to get back to my job.
No. Eden.
You wanted to fuck
me. and I walked away.
Now. I don't know
if that pissed you off.
and this is some kind of sick
revenge. But I have a family.
I have two daughters.
And you're gonna ruin my life.
So. please. this is not a game.
I'm not afraid of
you anymore. Noah.
Afraid of me?
I didn't go looking
for this moment.
A reporter called me. and...
I decided to tell the truth.
She called you? Why?
Noah. I'm doing you a favor.
I won't tell anybody you stalked
me here. but you need to leave now.
Or everyone's gonna
know about this.
[indistinct chatter]
Seriously.
[crowd murmuring]
[siren wailing]
[horn honking]
Hi.
- Hi.
- What a nice surprise.
- I thought you were still in Montauk.
- No. I just got home.
I just came by to...
wish you a happy birthday.
I brought dinner.
- I don't know if you guys have...
- Oh. that's so sweet.
I mean. we ate already.
but the kids made cake.
- Do you want to come in?
- Sure.
- [Stacey] Dad!
- Hey. Hey. Stacey.
[music playing faintly]
Perfect timing. We were just
about to sing "Happy Birthday."
[chuckles] Great.
- Hey. Dad.
- Hey. Trev.
- Nice cake.
- Thank you.
Lasagna for my
birthday. Thank you.
How's Whitney?
Uh. she's good.
She's-she's great.
[Helen] Thank you
again for doing that.
No. no. It was my pleasure.
And Martin called today.
He says he made the dean's list.
- You're kidding me.
- Nope.
[exhales] We did good.
Solloway. somehow.
Uh. do you want some? The
kids and I are about to have a toast.
- What. even Stacey?
- She can have a little.
- [phone ringing]
- Sure.
That's so weird. This
New York number
has been calling me all day.
and they won't leave a voice mail.
Hello.
Yeah. this is Helen Solloway.
I'm sorry. from what magazine?
[quietly] Vanity Fair.
- Helen...
- Uh. okay. I need two minutes.
Can we start
drinking without you?
[whispers] It's
just two minutes.
- Helen...
- Okay. Petra. what can I do for you?
[Stacey huffing and puffing]
[instrumental music playing]
Press play. Subtitles appear.
200+ languages. One app:  tryray.app